Project Name:  Oloisukut Group Conservancy
November 2023
Code: KVDA/STV/11A
Dates: 6th to 27th November 2023
Orientation: 6th November 2023
Travel to the Project: 7th November 2023
Project closure: 26th November 2023
Travel from the project: 27th November 2023
Location: Narok County, Rift VALLEY
Theme: Conservation
Project overview
The Maasai Mara National Reserve (also known as Masai Mara and by the locals as The Mara) is a large game reserve in Narok County, Kenya, contiguous with the Serengeti National Park in Mara Region, Tanzania. It is named in honor of the Maasai people (the ancestral inhabitants of the area) and their description of the area when looked at from afar: “Mara,” which is Maa (Maasai language) for “sp

otted,” an apt description for the circles of trees, scrub, savanna, and cloud shadows that mark the area.

It is globally famous for its exceptional population of Masai lions, African leopards and Tanzanian cheetahs, and the annual migration of zebra, Thomson’s gazelle, and wildebeest to and from the Serengeti every year from July to October, known as the Great Migration.

The Maasai Mara National Reserve is only a fraction of the Greater Mara Ecosystem, which includes the following Group Ranches: Koiyaki, Lemek, Ol Chorro Oirowua, Olkinyei, Siana, Maji Moto, Naikara, Ol Derkesi, Kerinkani, Oloirien, and Kimintet

Composition of the community

 

AGE: Volunteers have to be at least 18 years old to participate in the work camp. There is no upper age limit`

PROJECT ACTIVITIES

TYPE OF WORK CAMP: ANIM/ENVI/EDUC/MANU

Volunteers will work for six hours daily from Monday to Friday. They will work together with the local community members on the following activities:

Manual work and Intercultural activities:      

Tree planting
Renovation of school classrooms and painting at the institution
OTHER ACTIVITIES:

The theme of Discussion: Environmental conservation
Visits to Schools and homes in the neighbourhood
Sports with pupils and local Maasai community
Learning the Maasai culture and adventure within the Maasai Mara Game Reserve
PROJECT PARTICIPANTS: Maximum 20 volunteers from Kenya and the international community

What to carry?

This is outlined in the detailed info sheet and includes, sleeping bag and mat, toiletries, torch/flashlight, sandals, mosquito net, national flag from your country, among others

DONATION AND GIFTS:

These are usually symbolic gestures to enhance the solidarity of volunteers and the hosting community. Kindly contact KVDA for details in case you are willing to support a worthy cause in the community either by offering a donation or long-term intervention on the project.

THEME: Environmental CONSERVATION

Environmental management and rehabilitation strategies are essential in Kenya, as 70 percent of the country’s workers are employed in agriculture. In addition to this, eco-tourismmakes up nearly 20 percent of the country’s GDP.
Despite Kenya’s economic reliance on environmental health, 80 percent of the country’s land is arid or semi-arid. Only a small percentage of land is suitable for growing crops, and even these fertile areas are fragile. With poor agricultural management, the top soil is easily washed away.
Kenya’s poorest are the most likely to live in arid regions. Poverty cyclically increases with the scarcity of productive soil, clean water, effective sanitation and market opportunities. Without these critical resources, the poor are unable to improve their livelihoods.
Environmental conservation in Kenya is key to its development. While enforcing conservation is challenging due to population pressures, raising public awareness of environmental issues could also raise support for such measures.
As smallholder farmers seek arable land, they encroach on Kenya’s indigenous forests. Because of Kenya’s richness in non-timber forest products such as medicinal plants, essential oils and beeswax, the destruction of its forests harms both its wildlife and its economy. Conserving the forests is pivotal to protecting both Kenya’s resources and its 50 endangered species.
The beautiful mangrove forests and coral reefs that line Kenya’s Indian Ocean border are also a substantial form of revenue for the country, providing both ecotourism destinations and ecosystem services.
To further promote the ecological perspective of Kenya’s government, the Nature Conservancy and the Northern Rangelands Trust have collaborated to develop community conservancies in the northern semi-arid grasslands.
These conservancies cover 3 million hectares, within which over 200,000 people from 17 different ethnic tribes reside. They strive to help Kenyan communities engage in environmental
Orientation: Will be done on 6th November 2023 at Nairobi South YMCA Hostel in Nairobi and the team will leave for the project on the morning of 7th November 2023.

Airport pick-up services:

The port of entry to Kenya is Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi
Airport pick up will be done on provision of full flight details.
Volunteers will stay at Nairobi South YMCA Hostel at a subsidized fees ahead of their project placement.
Participation FEES

The project participation fees that is all-inclusive for the 3-week work camp is Euro 300

What is not included in the project participation fees: Transport to and from the project will be paid by the volunteers themselves.

INSURANCE: KVDA does not provide insurance and volunteers should obtain travel insurance cover. It is a good idea to get medicine you are used to from your home country and seek advice from your personal doctor.

WHAT DOES THE PARTICIPATION FEES COVER?

Project preparation cycle, return transfer from the airport, KVDA administration, orientation, certificate of participation, project coordination, facilitation, evaluation and monitoring

WHAT IS NOT COVERED?

Excursion activities, transport to and from the project, local travel, personal effects, needs and wants.

EDUCATIONAL TOURS

KVDA offers educational tours to spectacular sites including the renowned Maasai Mara Game Reserve at separate fees. Please contact us for specific tour information.

 ACCOMMODATION AND MEALS

Volunteers will stay in a homestead provided by the local people with very basic living conditions.
Volunteers have an obligation to climb down the level of the people with the aim of exposure to development challenges.
KVDA will provide foodstuffs and volunteers will cook their own meals in turns. Water is available from springs and it is recommended that drinking water should be boiled or medicated.
Mineral water available at supermarkets is also recommended.
The Government policy to install ICT in primary schools has seen connectivity to the national power grid for most educational institutions in Kenya and this makes it easy for volunteers to use electric appliances while at the project.
Furthermore, we invite you to bring typical food, spices, drinks, games and music from your country (for an intercultural evening) – and a lot of motivation!
LANGUAGE: English is the language of the work camp. There will be a possibility of learning Kiswahili and other international and local languages as cultural diversity is a major component in international service

EMERGENCY CONTACTS:

Below are the emergency contacts for Kenya Voluntary Development Association:

KVDA Administration: +254721 650 357

PROJECT DETAILED INFO SHEET: Will be sent to the volunteer sending organization within one week on acceptance of the volunteer by KVDA.

CONFIRMATION DEADLINE: Should be done via e-mail at least one month before the start of the project.