Project Name: Nyamanche Primary School 
August 2023  

Code: KVDA/STV/08B 

Dates: 1st -22nd August 2023 

Orientation: 1st August 2023 

Travel to the Project: 2nd August 2023 

Project closure: 21st August 2023 

Travel from the project: 22nd August 2023 

Location: Kuria, Migori County, South West Kenya 

Theme: Gender Sensitivity: Focus on Female Genital  Mutilation 

Project overview 
Nyamanche Primary School started the year 1981 as a Government School.  The School supports children from the neighbouring villages. It consists of  600 (six hundred) pupils, 350 girls and 250 boys. The school has 12 teachers, 1 female and 11 male. It has 10 classrooms, 2 offices and 1 kitchen.  The school has good academic record in the County. 

MOTTO;  

“Strive for Excellence” 

OBJECTIVES 

To mould future leaders 
Maintain high discipline
To reduce illiteracy level in the Community 
Create platform for volunteerism. 
CHALLENGES 

Cultural practice such as female genital mutilation
Poor sanitation
Lack of funds to facilitate the proposed development projects ∙ Dependency on external assistance
Poor utilization of available resources
AGE: Volunteers have to be at least 18 years old to participate in the work  camp. There is no upper age limit 

PROJECT Activities 

The school was started with the aim of having members of the community  have access to education and more so the girl child. In this community,  differences between man and woman dictate a difference in their social roles  and this reinforces a notion that men are more superior to women. Capacity  building will provide both men and women with political insight and moral  support in confronting gender issues. A woman’s social status has led to  marginalization. This was the very reason of starting the school so as to  empower the girl child. 

The project involves different types of activities. These include:

TYPE OF WORK CAMP: CHIL/EDUC/MANU 
Volunteers will work for six hours daily from Monday to Friday. 

Manual work and Intercultural activities: 

School construction 
Teaching primary school pupils 
Tree planting 
Stones collection and pathways clearing 
Sensitization of the community on the side effects of FGM ∙ Home visits and topical discussion with the local people 
PROJECT PARTICIPANTS: Maximum 20 volunteers from Kenya and  the international community 

What to carry? 

This is outlined in the detailed info sheet and includes, sleeping bag and mat,  toiletries, torch/flashlight, sandals, mosquito net, national flag from your  country, among others 

DONATION AND GIFTS:  

These are usually symbolic gestures to enhance the solidarity of volunteers  and the hosting community. Kindly contact KVDA for details in case you are  willing to support a worthy cause in the community either by offering a  donation or long-term intervention on the project. 

THEME: GENDER SENSITIVITY: FOCUS ON FEMALE GENITAL  MUTILATION (FGM) 
Female genital mutilation is a strong tradition in this community. It is  illegal. But still more than one third of the women are circumcised and  each and every young woman is subjected to the cut.  
The church has preached against FGM for decades but in spite of the  deep devoutness the priests do not have enough power over the souls. ∙ FGM has nothing to do with religion; it is a so-called culture and  tradition in certain groups. 
The practice is deeply rooted in views on chastity, transition to  womanhood, “purity” for marriage and basically a wish to control  women sexually. In certain areas the survival and fertility of the local  community is assumed to be threatened if the girls are not circumcised.  Many brave young girls who refuse FGM are regarded as “unmarriageable” and become outcasts.
 It is a brutal act, painful and has led to the spread of HIV/AIDS.  Volunteers will be required to liaise with other Non-Governmental  organizations like Red Cross in creation of awareness to the  community. 
Orientation: Will be done on 1st August 2023 at Nairobi South YMCA  Hostel in Nairobi and the team will leave for the project on the morning of  2nd August 2023. 

Airport pick-up services:  

The port of entry to Kenya is Jomo Kenyatta International  Airport in Nairobi. 
 Airport pick up will be done on provision of full flight details.  
Volunteers will stay at Nairobi South YMCA Hostel at a subsidized  fees ahead of their project placement. 
Participation FEES 

The project participation fees that is all-inclusive for the 3- week work camp  is Euro 300 

What is not included in the project participation fees: Transport to  and from the project will be paid by the volunteers themselves.  

INSURANCE: KVDA does not provide insurance and volunteers should  obtain travel insurance cover. It is a good idea to get medicine you are used  to from your home country and seek advice from your personal doctor. 

WHAT DOES THE PARTICIPATION FEES COVER? 

Project preparation cycle, return transfers from the airport, KVDA  administration, orientation, certificate of participation, project coordination,  facilitation, evaluation and monitoring 

WHAT IS NOT COVERED? 

Excursion activities, transport to and from the project, local travel, personal  effects, needs and wants.

EDUCATIONAL TOURS  

KVDA offers educational tours to spectacular sites including the renowned  Maasai Mara Game Reserve at separate fees. Please contact us for specific  tour information.  

ACCOMMODATION AND MEALS 
Volunteers will stay in classrooms at the School with very basic living  conditions.  
Volunteers have an obligation to climb down the level of the people  with the aim of exposure to development challenges.  
KVDA will provide foodstuffs and volunteers will cook their own meals  in turns.  
Water is available from springs and it is recommended that drinking  water should be boiled or medicated. Mineral water available at  supermarkets is also recommended.  
The Government policy to install ICT in primary schools has seen  connectivity to the national power grid for most educational  institutions in Kenya and this makes it easy for volunteers to use  electric appliances while at the project.  
Furthermore, we invite you to bring typical food, spices, drinks, games  and music from your country (for an intercultural evening) – and a lot  of motivation! 
LANGUAGE: English is the language of the work camp. There will be a  possibility of learning Kiswahili and other international and local languages  as cultural diversity is a major component in international service 

EMERGENCY CONTACTS: 

Below is the emergency contact for Kenya Voluntary Development  Association: 

KVDA Administration: +254721 650 357 

PROJECT DETAILED INFO SHEET: Will be sent to the volunteer  sending organization as soon as the application is accepted by KVDA 

CONFIRMATION DEADLINE: Should be done via e-mail at least one  month before the start of the project.