Project name: Happy Me Happy You
August 2023 
Code: KVDA/STV/08E
Dates: 7TH TO 28th August 2023
Orientation: 7TH August 2023
Travel to the Project: 8th August 2023
Project closure: 27th August 2023
Travel from the project: 28th August 2023
Location: Hamisi, Vihiga County, Western Kenya
Theme: Women Empowerment: Girl child education
Project overview
Happy Me Happy You is a community based organization set up to break the cycle of poverty in communities in Western Kenya.
The group is passionate not only to support beneficiaries but enhancing the program at the grassroots to make the difference.
The CBO has children as the priority with the number of students growing rapidly. The majority of the children are orphans who have grown up in extreme poverty with food scarcity
By supplementing their nutritional needs, providing clean water and other basic necessities, the CBO is dedicated to provide a conducive environment for learning.
The CBO supports parents and guardians to break the cycle of poverty in the community through food supplies, water filters, seedlings and generally enhancing the food security situation.
TYPE OF WORK CAMP: CHIL/EDU/Manu

Project Location:

The project is located in Kipkiran village, Kipchekwen sub-location, Banja location of Vihiga County.
The project is located 15 Kms from Majengo township along the main Kisumu-Kakamega road.
Manual work and Intercultural activities:

Teaching children
Playing with children, engage in social activities and games
Cook and serve meals
Farm to provide food, interact with parents
Assist in classroom construction and maintain roads around the school
Engage in team building activities with staff, fetch water for cooking and cleaning
Empowering the vulnerable in society with focus on children
Home visits to the orphans and the vulnerable in society
Inter-cultural education to foster global cooperation
PROJECT PARTICIPANTS: Maximum 20 volunteers from Kenya and the international community

What to carry?

This is outlined in the detailed info sheet and includes, sleeping bag and mat, toiletries, torch/flashlight, sandals, mosquito net, national flag from your country, among others

DONATION AND GIFTS:

These are usually symbolic gestures to enhance the solidarity of volunteers and the hosting community. Kindly contact KVDA for details in case you are willing to support a worthy cause in the community either by offering a donation or long-term intervention on the project.

THEME: Girl Child Education
Girls’ education goes beyond getting girls into school. It is also about ensuring that girls learn and feel safe while in school; complete all levels of education with the skills to effectively compete in the labor market; learn the socio-emotional and life skills necessary to navigate and adapt to a changing world; make decisions about their own lives; and contribute to their communities and the world.
Girls’ education is a strategic development priority. Better educated women tend to be healthier, participate more in the formal labor market, earn higher incomes, have fewer children, marry at a later age, and enable better health care and education for their children, should they choose to become mothers. All these factors combined can help lift households, communities, and nations out of poverty.
According to UNESCO estimates, 130 million girls between the age of 6 and 17 are out of school and 15 million girls of primary-school age—half of them in sub-Saharan Africa— will never enter a classroom.
Poverty remains the most important factor for determining whether a girl can access an education. For example, in Nigeria, only 4 percent of poor young women in the North West zone can read, compared with 99 percent of rich young women in the South East. Studies consistently reinforce that girls who face multiple disadvantages — such as low family income, living in remote or underserved locations, disability or belonging to a minority ethno-linguistic group — are farthest behind in terms of access to and completion of education.
Violence also negatively impacts access to education and a safe environment for learning. For example, in Haiti, recent research  highlights that one in three Haitian women (ages 15 to 49) has experienced physical and/or sexual violence, and that of women who received money for sex before turning 18 years old, 27 percent reported schools to be the most common location for solicitation.
Child marriage is also a critical challenge. Child brides are much more likely to drop out of school and complete fewer years of education than their peers who marry later. This affects the education and health of their children, as well as their ability to earn a living. According to a recent report, more than 41,000 girls under the age of 18 marry every day and putting an end to the practice would increase women’s expected educational attainment, and with it, their potential earnings. According to estimates, ending child marriage could generate more than $500 billion in benefits annually each year
Every day, girls face barriers to education caused by poverty, cultural norms and practices, poor infrastructure, violence, and fragility. The WBG has joined with governments, civil society organizations, multilateral organization, the private sector, and donors to advance multi-sectoral approaches to overcome these challenges. Working together with girls and women, the WBG focus includes:
Providing conditional cash transfers, stipends or scholarships;
Reducing distance to school;
Targeting boys and men to be a part of discussions about cultural and societal practices;
Ensuring gender-sensitive curricula and pedagogies;
Hiring and training qualified female teachers;
Building safe and inclusive learning environments for girls and young women;
Ending child/early marriage; and
Addressing violence against girls and women
Orientation: Will be done on 7th August 2023 at Nairobi South YMCA Hostel in Nairobi and the team will leave for the project on the morning of 8th August 2023

Airport pick-up services:
This will be done subject to provision of full flight details.
The port of entry to Kenya is Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi.
Volunteers will stay at Nairobi South YMCA Hostel at a subsidized fees ahead of their project placement.
Participation FEES: The project participation fees that is all-inclusive for the three weeks’ work camp is Euro 300

What is not included in the project participation fees: Transport to and from the project will be paid by the volunteers themselves.

INSURANCE: KVDA does not provide insurance and volunteers should obtain travel insurance cover. It is a good idea to get medicine you are used to from your home country and seek advice from your personal doctor.

WHAT DOES THE PARTICIPATION FEES COVER?

Project preparation cycle, return transfers from the airport, KVDA administration, orientation, certificate of participation, project coordination, facilitation, evaluation and monitoring

WHAT IS NOT COVERED?

Excursion activities, transport to and from the project, local travel, personal effects, needs and wants.

EDUCATIONAL TOURS

KVDA offers educational tours to spectacular sites including the renowned Maasai Mara Game Reserve at separate fees. Please contact us for specific tour information.

ACCOMMODATION AND FOOD

The host community will provide a house to accommodate the volunteers with basic living conditions.
Volunteers have an obligation to climb down the level of the people with the aim of exposure to development challenges.
KVDA will provide foodstuffs and volunteers will cook their own meals in turns.
Water is available from springs and it is recommended that drinking water should be boiled or medicated.
Mineral water available at supermarkets is also recommended.
There is electricity connection at the project and solar energy in case of power outages and the volunteers can charge electric appliances at the project.
LANGUAGE: English is the language of the work camp. There will be a possibility of learning Kiswahili and other international and local languages as cultural diversity is a major component in international service

EMERGENCY CONTACTS:

Below are the emergency contacts for Kenya Voluntary Development Association:

KVDA Administration: +254721 650 357

PROJECT DETAILED INFO SHEET: Will be sent to the volunteer sending organization as soon as the application is accepted by KVDA

CONFIRMATION DEADLINE: Should be done via e-mail at least one month before the start of the project