Location: mabera, migori county, South West Kenya Theme: Women Empowerment: Girl child education  Project overview 

St. Theresa Mabera Primary School was registered on 3rd September 2018. The School is situated in Mabera Township along the Migori to Isebania  Road, Taraga location, Mabera Sub County of Migori County in South West  Kenya. The School is mixed day school for boys and girls located predominantly  among the Kuria community that is among marginalized ethnic communities  in Kenya.The school has a population of 187 pupils; 96 boys and 91 girls. The School has 8 teachers and 4 non-teaching staff members 

AGE: Volunteers have to be at least 18 years old to participate in the work  camp. There is no upper age limit. 

PROJECT Activities: Volunteers will work for six hours daily from Monday  to Friday. 

TYPE OF WORK CAMP: SOCI/CONS/CHIL 

Manual work and Intercultural activities:  

∙ Teaching 

∙ Playing with children 

∙ Sand harvesting 

∙ Sensitization on the effects of female Genital Mutilation (FGM) to the  children, parents and the entire community 

∙ Empowering the vulnerable in society with focus on children ∙ Promotion of safe male circumcision  

∙ Home visits to the orphans and the vulnerable in society ∙ Inter-cultural education to foster global cooperation 

PROJECT PARTICIPANTS: Maximum 20 volunteers from Kenya and the  international community 

What to carry?  

This is outlined in the detailed info sheet and includes, sleeping bag and mat,  toiletries, torch/flashlight, sandals, mosquito net, national flag from your  country, among others 

DONATION AND GIFTS:  

These are usually symbolic gestures to enhance the solidarity of volunteers  and the hosting community. Kindly contact KVDA for details in case you are  willing to support a worthy cause in the community either by offering a  donation or long-term intervention on the project.

THEME: THEME: Girl child education 
Girls’ education goes beyond getting girls into school. It is also about  ensuring that girls learn and feel safe while in school; complete all  levels of education with the skills to effectively compete in the labor  market; learn the socio-emotional and life skills necessary to navigate  and adapt to a changing world; make decisions about their own lives;  and contribute to their communities and the world. 

Girls’ education is a strategic development priority. Better educated  women tend to be healthier, participate more in the formal labor  market, earn higher incomes, have fewer children, marry at a later  age, and enable better health care and education for their children,  should they choose to become mothers. All these factors combined  can help lift households, communities, and nations out of poverty. 

 According to UNESCO estimates, 130 million girls between the age of  6 and 17 are out of school and 15 million girls of primary-school age half of them in sub-Saharan Africa will never enter a classroom. 

Poverty remains the most important factor for determining whether a  girl can access an education. For example, in Nigeria, only 4 percent  of poor young women in the North West zone can read, compared  with 99 percent of rich young women in the South East. Studies  consistently reinforce that girls who face multiple disadvantages such as low family income, living in remote or underserved locations,  disability or belonging to a minority ethno-linguistic group are  farthest behind in terms of access to and completion of education. 

Violence also negatively impacts access to education and a safe  environment for learning. For example, in Haiti, recent  research highlights that one in three Haitian women (ages 15 to 49)  has experienced physical and/or sexual violence, and that of women  who received money for sex before turning 18 years old, 27 percent  reported schools to be the most common location for solicitation. 

Child marriage is also a critical challenge. Child brides are much more likely to drop out of school and complete fewer years of education  than their peers who marry later. This affects the education and  health of their children, as well as their ability to earn a  

living. According to a recent report, more than 41,000 girls under the  age of 18 marry every day and putting an end to the practice would  increase women’s expected educational attainment, and with it, their  potential earnings. According to estimates, ending child marriage  could generate more than $500 billion in benefits annually each year

Every day, girls face barriers to education caused by poverty, cultural  norms and practices, poor infrastructure, violence, and fragility. The  WBG has joined with governments, civil society organizations,  multilateral organization, the private sector, and donors to advance  multi-sectoral approaches to overcome these challenges. Working  together with girls and women, the WBG focus includes: 

Providing conditional cash transfers, stipends or scholarships; ∙ Reducing distance to school; 
Targeting boys and men to be a part of discussions about cultural and  societal practices; 
Ensuring gender-sensitive curricula and pedagogies; 
Hiring and training qualified female teachers; 
Building safe and inclusive learning environments for girls and young  women; 
Ending child/early marriage; and 
Addressing violence against girls and women 
Orientation: Will be done on 4th January 2023 at Nairobi South  YMCA Hostel in Nairobi and the team will leave for the project on the  morning of 5th January 2023 

Airport pick-up services:  

This will be done subject to provision of full flight details.  ∙ The port of entry to Kenya is Jomo Kenyatta International  Airport in Nairobi.  
Volunteers will stay at Nairobi South YMCA Hostel at a subsidized  fees ahead of their project placement. 
Participation FEES: The project participation fees that is all-inclusive for  the three weeks’ work camp is Euro 300 

What is not included in the project participation fees: Transport to  and from the project will be paid by the volunteers themselves. 

INSURANCE: KVDA does not provide insurance and volunteers should  obtain travel insurance cover. It is a good idea to get medicine you are used  to from your home country and seek advice from your personal doctor. 

WHAT DOES THE PARTICIPATION FEES COVER? 
Project preparation cycle, return transfers from the airport, KVDA  administration, orientation, certificate of participation, project coordination,  facilitation, evaluation and monitoring 

WHAT IS NOT COVERED? 

Excursion activities, transport to and from the project, local travel, personal  effects, needs and wants. 

EDUCATIONAL TOURS  

KVDA offers educational tours to spectacular sites including the renowned  Maasai Mara Game Reserve at separate fees. Please contact us for specific  tour information.  

ACCOMMODATION AND FOOD 

The host community will provide a house to accommodate the  volunteers with basic living conditions.  
Volunteers have an obligation to climb down the level of the people  with the aim of exposure to development challenges.
KVDA will provide foodstuffs and volunteers will cook their own meals  in turns.
Water is available from springs and it is recommended that drinking  water should be boiled or medicated.
Mineral water available at supermarkets is also recommended.  ∙ There is electricity connection at the project and solar energy in case of  power outages and the volunteers can charge electric appliances at the  project.
LANGUAGE: English is the language of the work camp. There will be a  possibility of learning Kiswahili and other international and local languages  as cultural diversity is a major component in international service

EMERGENCY CONTACTS: 

Below are the emergency contacts for Kenya Voluntary Development  Association: 

KVDA Administration: +254721 650 357 

PROJECT DETAILED INFO SHEET: Will be sent to the volunteer sending  organization as soon as the application is accepted by KVDA 

CONFIRMATION DEADLINE: Should be done via e-mail at least one month  before the start of the project 