Project Name: Ushuhuda Network for Orphans and vulnerable Children in Webuye
Code: KVDA/MLTV/2023/28

Location: Webuye, Bungoma County.

Service Sector: Education and Children Support.

Date 2023.

OVERVIEW ON HOSTING ORGANIZATION 
Kenya Voluntary Development Association (KVDA) is an indigenous, non-political and membership organization which is non-sectarian and non-profit making started in 1962 as a work camp organization registered under the Societies’ Act. In 1993, KVDA was registered as a Non-Governmental organization by the establishment of the NGOs Coordination Act.
KVDA has since inception hosted over 50, 000 international volunteers to its community service development projects that have left indelible mark to efforts to enhance sustainable development.
Project background

The institution was established in 2011 and registered as a community based organization in 2012.

It major focus is to address the challenges facing the local community and foremost the high poverty levels, disease and social exclusion. HIV/AIDS is among the leading scourges of the times within the local community and this call for urgent strategic intervention to manage the difficult situation.

The School has a population of 150 children and there are 13 teachers employed to take care of the institution.

Further, the School faces grave challenges with regards to infrastructural development and it urgently requires construction of classrooms to accommodate the increasing student population.

Volunteer tasks

Teaching Primary School pupils
Capacity Building for Community Based Organizations
Social work majorly guiding and counseling 
Field visits and face to face meetings with the local people
Participate in home visits to enhance inter-cultural education and solidarity
Home visits with focus on strengthening partnerships involving various stakeholders within the local community
Submit Project Report to KVDA
PROJECT START DATES

It is recommended that volunteers applying to join this project should be aware that school terms in Kenya start at the beginning of the following months January and May 2021
Schools in Kenya have three holiday seasons; April, August, November and December annually
This means the volunteers wishing to participate in this project should arrive in Kenya at the start of January, towards the end of April 2021
It is important to note that due to the stringent regulations by the Ministry of Education, we do not accept volunteers to join the project during the 3rd term that begins in September 2021 as the term is fully dedicated to national examinations and the Government has imposed restrictions that would not allow the participation of volunteers on the school program.
Financial contribution

The project participation fee is Euro 200 per month paid upfront on arrival to the cover costs stipulated the entire duration of the project. 
Monthly payment of participation fees is not allowed for conventional purposes.
Volunteers accepted on MLTV project for one month will pay Euros 300 for the one month placement.
What is included in the participation fee?

Return transfers from the airport
Full board at the project (Accommodation and meals provided at the project)
Orientation, evaluation and monitoring
Volunteer mentorship
What is not included in the participation fee?

Travel to and from the project. The volunteer will be required to pay for the bus tickets
Refreshments outside the project
Air ticket and excursion
Visa and Insurance 
Local travel 
personal effects
ACCOMMODATION AND MEALS

Home stay and the volunteer is entitled to private room but will share other amenities and meals with the host family. 
It is convenient for the volunteer to carry sleeping bag, mat and personal effects.
KVDA has a memorandum of understanding with the host project regarding the project costs with appropriate procedures, checks and balances.
Terminal 

Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi is the port of arrival and KVDA will designate a driver for the airport pick up. 
We strongly advice volunteers against getting taxis on their own without reference to KVDA due to the obvious risks and in case of any challenges on arrival kindly contact KVDA via mobile telephone 0721650357
KVDA RESIDENCE

Volunteers will be driven to the YMCA South hostels located 15 Kilometers away from the airport where they will be accommodated ahead of their placement to the project. 
The residence is situated in the serene environment with amble space for recreation and spectacular setting as the inauguration of volunteering to make a difference in the world.
Leisure time

Kenya is replete with a lot of interesting and natural spectacular sites of interest that would capture the imagination of volunteers. 
From the tour to the renowned Maasai Mara Game Reserve to visits to local community beholding sights, the volunteers have the previledge to make choices that would fundamentally make the difference. 
The project also offers a perfect opportunity for people who enjoy being close to nature and are interested in the spectacular setting that traditional way of living in the heartland of the African culture would enrich your cultural heritage
Laundry and water:

Water is available at the hosting house from springs and it is important to preserve water at all times due to its scarcity and cooperation with the hosts will be highly appreciated
There are no washing machines in the institution and the volunteer will be guided on how to wash clothes
Medical:

Volunteers are expected to have their own medical insurance and other personal expenses and it is important to carry your own medical and travel insurances.
MENTORING:

Mentor for the volunteer from the hosting organisation: KVDA will designate its staff to play the role of mentoring and this is the vital link between the volunteer and the organization. The Mentor has the responsibility to enable the volunteer to efficiently execute their tasks with diligence.
Function of mentor: advise, educate, be a role model to the volunteers; providing problem solving, collaborative support, positive and non evaluative feedback and emotional support for volunteers; to provide comfort, exposure, visibility and challenging assignments which directly support the volunteer’s personal and professional development; to provide counselling and friendship to support the volunteer’s self-image and competence and thus to listen, guide, advice, teach and offer professional support to the volunteers 
The mentor will be available for the volunteer as a constant supporting person. However, he/she should not be directly involved in the daily work of the volunteer.
Mentor’s Experience with international volunteers: More than 3 years’ experience with international volunteers
Project participants: Maximum 10 volunteers from different nationalities recruited through KVDA partner organizations

What to carry: This is outlined in the detailed info sheet and includes, sleeping bag and mat, toiletries, torch, flashlight, sandals, mosquito net, national flag from your country, among others

DONATION AND GIFTS: These are usually symbolic gestures to enhance the solidarity of volunteers and the hosting community. Kindly contact KVDA for details in case you are willing to support a worthy cause in the community either by offering a donation or long-term intervention on the project.

APPLICATIONS: Should be done at least one month in advance through KVDA partner organization in respective countries. KVDA does not accept direct applications by volunteers

Related
