Project Name:  KITO INTERNATIONAL
October 2023
Code: KVDA/STV/10B
Dates: 2nd -23rd October 2023
Orientation: 2nd October 2023
Travel to the Project: 3rd October 2023
Project closure: 22nd October 2023
Travel from the project: 23rd October 2023
Location: SIAYA County, Western Kenya
Theme:  YOUTH EMPOWERMENT
Project overview
KITO International is a non-profit social enterprise dedicated to getting youth off the streets and out of poverty. Inspired and founded by a former street boy, KITO combats poverty by providing economic opportunities. We are based in Nairobi and Siaya in Kenya.
KITO trains youth in entrepreneurship, financial literacy, employability skills, and life skills. After 2 months of intensive training, KITO youth are temporarily employed with KITO’s social enterprise, EcoSafi, in order to gain hands-on experience in a formal employment setting.
KITO staff and supporters also seek opportunities to link KITO youth to mentorships, internship, or apprenticeships in and around the community in order to expand the youth’s knowledge and confidence in order to set them on the path towards self-sufficiency.
KITO is dedicated to the success of each and every youth that walks through its doors and customizes each youth’s exit strategy to ensure their continued success and growth. Previous KITO graduates have continued their education, secured full-time employment, and started their own business.
AGE: Volunteers have to be at least 18 years old to participate in the work camp. There is no upper age limit

TYPE OF WORKCAMP: CHIL/EDUC/MANU/SOCI
Volunteers will work for six hours daily from Monday to Friday.

Manual work and Intercultural activities:

The volunteers do not have to be professionals but will be guided to do manual work and other activities that positively impact on the advancement of Kito International.
Training youths on life skills, entrepreneurship, financial literacy, employability, curriculum Vitae development and interviewing skills.
Mentorship and apprenticeship for the youths with emphasis on the girl child who are marginalized.
Design and production of custom-made bags from bio degradable materials, printing of T-Shirts and other related works
Participating in clean ups in the community and around the Lake Victoria
Conduct focus group discussions on gender issues
Assist the Librarian in the community library.
Submit project report to KVDA
PROJECT PARTICIPANTS: Maximum 20 volunteers from Kenya and the international community

What to carry?
This is outlined in the detailed info sheet and includes, sleeping bag and mat, toiletries, torch/flashlight, sandals, mosquito net, national flag from your country, among others

DONATION AND GIFTS:

These are usually symbolic gestures to enhance the solidarity of volunteers and the hosting community. Kindly contact KVDA for details in case you are willing to support a worthy cause in the community either by offering a donation or long-term intervention on the project.

THEME: YOUTH EMPOWERMENT

This project is aimed at the empowerment of the youths within the rural setting to tackle challenges of development.
Identity crisis is a major drawback to efforts to enhance community development and the majority of the young people are in and out of school and they portend a danger to society is they are not nurtured and supported to establishment themselves into responsible citizens.
Kito International establishment is premised on that pedestal as a platform to nurture talents and inspire members of the local community to sustain livelihoods.
The involvement of local and international volunteers serves the critical purpose of sensitization and exposure to challenges of development.
Orientation: Will be done on 2nd October 2023 at Nairobi South YMCA Hostel in Nairobi and the team will leave for the project on the morning of 3rd October 2023.

Airport pick-up services:

The port of entry to Kenya is Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi
Airport pick up will be done on provision of full flight details.
Volunteers will stay at Nairobi South YMCA Hostel at a subsidized fees ahead of their project placement.
Participation FEES

The project participation fees that is all-inclusive for the 3- week work camp is Euro 300

What is not included in the project participation fees: Transport to and from the project will be paid by the volunteers themselves.

INSURANCE: KVDA does not provide insurance and volunteers should obtain travel insurance cover. It is a good idea to get medicine you are used to from your home country and seek advice from your personal doctor.

WHAT DOES THE PARTICIPATION FEES COVER?

Project preparation cycle, return transfer from the airport, KVDA administration, orientation, certificate of participation, project coordination, facilitation, evaluation and monitoring

WHAT IS NOT COVERED?

Excursion activities, transport to and from the project, local travel, personal effects, needs and wants.

EDUCATIONAL TOURS

KVDA offers educational tours to spectacular sites including the renowned Maasai Mara Game Reserve at separate fees. Please contact us for specific tour information.

ACCOMMODATION AND MEALS

Volunteers will stay in classrooms at the School with very basic living conditions. Volunteers have an obligation to climb down the level of the people with the aim of exposure to development challenges.
KVDA will provide foodstuffs and volunteers will cook their own meals in turns. Water is available from springs and it is recommended that drinking water should be boiled or medicated. Mineral water available at supermarkets is also recommended.
The Government policy to install ICT in primary schools has seen connectivity to the national power grid for most educational institutions in Kenya and this makes it easy for volunteers to use electric appliances while at the project.
Furthermore, we invite you to bring typical food, spices, drinks, games and music from your country (for an intercultural evening) – and a lot of motivation!
LANGUAGE: English is the language of the work camp. There will be a possibility of learning Kiswahili and other international and local languages as cultural diversity is a major component in international service

EMERGENCY CONTACTS:

Below is the emergency contact for Kenya Voluntary Development Association:

KVDA Administration: +254721 650 357

PROJECT DETAILED INFO SHEET: Will be sent to the volunteer sending organization as soon as the application is accepted by KVDA

CONFIRMATION DEADLINE: Should be done via e-mail at least one month before the start of the project

 