International Work camps
It involves recruitment of volunteers worldwide through partner organizations in respective countries to participate in community service projects at the grassroots in Kenya. 

The projects are identified by the local community who team up with volunteers from Kenya and overseas to support the community to implement actions to empower the local people.

Popular projects include tree planting, construction at schools, manual work, working with children, study work, world heritage volunteers, art, music and theatre, teaching, medical care among others.

More than 50 projects are organized nationwide where we deploy motivated volunteers who have incredibly made a big difference in society.

Medium and long-term volunteers’ Placement
KVDA has over 40 projects nationwide that are open to medium and long-term volunteers for a duration ranging from one month to one year.

Most of the projects are located in rural Kenya in various institutions that are community based.

We encourage professionals to take advantage of the available opportunities in order to continue to impact positively on society.

National Workcamps and expeditions
National workcamps focus on recruitment of national volunteers from Kenya who are dedicated to support community development.

KVDA has partnerships with learning institutions to make this program a reality and impacted positively on society. The majority of volunteers on this program are young people who have completed their primary and secondary school education.

We have students from institutions of high learning majoring in social sciences attached to this program.

We are open to new partnerships and welcome motivated volunteers to join the program.

Erasmus Plus Program funded by the European Commission
In partnership with organizations from EU, KVDA has been actively involved in the implementation of Erasmus plus projects and so far we have successfully implemented 25 projects since 2008 under the aegis of Youth in action program the precursor of Erasmus plus program.

We are open to new partnerships based on our track record on deliverables.

Outbound voluntary service exchange program
Volunteering abroad. KVDA has launched the 2021 outbound volunteering program.

This program affords young people from Kenya an opportunity to volunteers in projects in Africa, Asia, Europe and Americas through partner organizations in those countries.

The projects range from 2 weeks to 1 year.

Motivated volunteers are encouraged to submit applications.

The outgoing volunteers are hosted in projects identified by our partners overseas.

Educational tours.
KVDA organizes educational tours to spectacular sites of interest in Kenya more so the renowned Maasai Mara Game Reserve, Nairobi National Park and Lake Nakuru National Park

We have different tailor-made packages that are suitable to volunteers motivated to experience that circumstance bestowed by the beauty of Kenya, wildlife and national heritage.

Development education and empowerment of communities.
Poverty eradication is a key plank in our intervention strategies at the grassroots. The majority of the people in communities recipient to our volunteer projects live in abject poverty and we have a deliberate strategy to support them through linkages on income generation and sustenance of livelihoods.

Through the maxim “Development Against Dependence”, we are cognizant of the fact that true development must be people-centered and driven for sustainable development.

Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
In response to emerging needs on structural reforms at the grassroots the corporate sector is keen to enhance the capacities of community-based organizations to enable them to effectively respond to emerging challenges.

This program has the capacity to transform communities in dire straits through enhanced infrastructure to spur sustainable development.

Enterprise Development Training.
Youth Entrepreneurship and Leadership Development program (YELD) was initiated to respond to the unemployment crisis among the youths in Kenya.

KVDA has devised training course to respond to this challenge with the capacity to enable the youths to translate the program skills into economic opportunities.

Languages teaching i.e. Kiswahili and English
This is designed specifically to fill gaps for volunteers arriving in Kenya and are interested to learn either Kiswahili or English as these are the languages of choice for effective communication in Kenya.

The program is tailor-made to suit the needs of the potential volunteers organized at the grassroots.

Inter-cultural education and use of forum theatre and non-formal education to enhance cultural diversity
Forum theater and other non-formal education methodologies are critical at the grassroots for effective communication. 

KVDA works with budding artistes and theater groups on a program that has profoundly translated thematic issues through drama, music, storytelling and dance.

Conferences and hospitality facilities
KVDA residence offers the ambience and aura for holding conferences for national and international teams.

Organizations wishing to organize conference and events are welcome as this is an opportunity with the capacity to make the big difference.


For over half century
KVDA has implemented over 10,000 community development projects
Constructed a water tank at Ole Sankale Primary School in Narok district in conjunction with Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA) in 2001
Renovation of Nyamaranya Primary School in Isebania, Kuria district in conjunction with the Kenya Charity Sweepstake in 2002
Constructed Nzinia Community dispensary in Tulia, Kitui district in 2002
Collaborated with Kuria Child and family program in Isebania in Migori county on Girl Child Education in 2002
Facilitated participation of the youth in Poverty Reduction Strategies through the Youth Thematic Group in 2002/3
Organized international work camps at Kakuma Refugees camp in Turkana district in collaboration with United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) where volunteers worked with UN agencies to address the plight of refugees in 2002 and 2004
Improvement of Kirasha Rescue center in Kiambu through Medium and Long-term voluntary service program from 2001-2007
Hosted the 29th General Assembly and conference of the Coordinating Committee for International Voluntary Service (CCIVS) in Nairobi attended by over 100 member organizations globally in November 2004
In partnership with Nairobi Peace Initiative (NPI-Africa) and World Student Christian Federation (WSCF), organized a training workshop and work camp for the great lakes region on peace building and conflict transformation in Nairobi and Kuria/Transmara districts respectively in August 2005