Project Name: ST. Joseph’s nyamosense special unit  school 
JULY 2023  

Code: KVDA/STV/07A 

Dates: 3rd -24TH July 2023 

Orientation: 3rdJuly 2023 

Travel to the Project: 4th July 2023 

Project closure: 23rdJuly 2023 

Travel from the project: 24th July 2023 

Location: Kuria, Migori County, South West Kenya 

Theme: THE RIGHTS OF CHILDREN WITH DISABILITIES: “The duty to  Protect, Respect, Promote and Fulfill” 

AGE: Volunteers have to be at least 18 years old to participate in the work  camp. There is no upper age limit. 

Project overview 
The School is still at the initial stages started in 2012 under Nyamosense  Primary School and Nyamosense Catholic Church. The management is in the  process of registering the institution with the Ministry of Social Services in  Kubwaha. The inhabitants are Kuria speaking people residing in the South  West of Kenya. Their economic mainstay is farming, where farmers grow  tobacco, maize, beans, sweet potatoes and other horticultural crops for sale.  Cattle and goat trade also take place but the volume of trade has gone very  low owing to the incessant cases of cattle rustling between the Kuria people  and the Maasai and Kipsigis of the neighboring Trans Mara district. The area  has low levels of literacy especially among people aged from 35 years and above. 

PROJECT Activities 

The idea was prompted by the growing need to sensitive members of the local  community on the plight of Children with disabilities, who continue to suffer  neglect and denial as the society remains conservative and unwilling to  attend to children with disabilities. Volunteers will work for six hours daily  from Monday to Friday. 

TYPE OF WORK CAMP: CHIL/DISA/EDU 
Manual work and Intercultural activities:  

Teaching pupils at the Special Unit School  
Care and support of orphans 
Interacting with children with disabilities 
Learn how to use sign language 
Brick making together with local community members  ∙ Open forums for discussion on children rights 
Study lessons on retrogressive cultural practices like Female Genital  Mutilation 
PROJECT PARTICIPANTS: Maximum 20 volunteers from Kenya and  the international community 

What to carry?  

This is outlined in the detailed info sheet and includes, sleeping bag and mat,  toiletries, torch/flashlight, sandals, mosquito net, national flag from your  country, among others 

DONATION AND GIFTS:  

These are usually symbolic gestures to enhance the solidarity of volunteers  and the hosting community. Kindly contact KVDA for details in case you are  willing to support a worthy cause in the community either by offering a  donation or long-term intervention on the project.

THEME: RIGHTS OF PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES: “The duty to  Protect, Respect, Promote and Fulfill”  
People with disabilities faces a myriad of challenges and most of them  are kept in the dark and never discussed. The society out of  misinformation choose to segregate them and in some cases denying  those basic rights, such as the right to education, right to socialize with  other people and the attendant stigma that takes a psychological toll  on the victims. 

People with disabilities are the most marginalized and vulnerable  group in Kenya. They are often abused, exploited and excluded by  society, denying them of their right to health, protection and  education. 

The work camp provides an opportunity for all actors to renew their  commitments towards improving the plight of marginalized and  vulnerable by organizing activities aimed at including people with  disabilities hence actively integrating them into the community  development spectrum. There is a lot of stigma within communities  towards homes and institutions with people with disabilities.  

The public needs to know that they can be useful citizens in the future  and also contribute towards the development of the country. Because  of the continued stigma, parents often hide their children and deny  them their rights, thinking they are totally helpless. Volunteers  together with community members and people with disability will  create forums where the local will be enlightened and enabled to  understand that “Disability is not inability”.

The volunteers will work together with members of the local  community to address the issue of stigma and access to basic facilities  and the place of children with disabilities in the contemporary world 

Orientation: Will be done on 3rd July 2023 at Nairobi South YMCA  Hostel in Nairobi and the team will leave for the project on the morning of  4th July 2023 

Airport pick-up services:  

The port of entry to Kenya is Jomo Kenyatta International  Airport in Nairobi.
Airport pick up will be done on provision of full flight details.
Volunteers will stay at Nairobi South YMCA Hostel at a subsidized  fees ahead of their project placement. 
Participation FEES: The project participation fees that is all-inclusive for  the 3-week work camp is Euro 300 

What is not included in the project participation fees: Transport to  and from the project will be paid by the volunteers themselves.  

INSURANCE: KVDA does not provide insurance and volunteers should  obtain travel insurance cover. It is a good idea to get medicine you are used  to from your home country and seek advice from your personal doctor. 

WHAT DOES THE PARTICIPATION FEES COVER? 

Project preparation cycle, return transfers from the airport, KVDA  administration, orientation, certificate of participation, project coordination,  facilitation, evaluation and monitoring 

WHAT IS NOT COVERED? 

Excursion activities, transport to and from the project, local travel, personal  effects, needs and wants. 

EDUCATIONAL TOURS  

KVDA offers educational tours to spectacular sites including the renowned  Maasai Mara Game Reserve at separate fees. Please contact us for specific  tour information.  

ACCOMMODATION AND MEALS 

Volunteers will stay in a homestead with very basic living conditions. ∙ Volunteers have an obligation to climb down the level of the people  with the aim of exposure to development challenges.  
KVDA will provide foodstuffs and volunteers will cook their own meals  in turns.  
Water is available from springs and it is recommended that drinking  water should be boiled or medicated. Mineral water available at  supermarkets is also recommended.  
There is no electricity connection at the project but volunteers can  charge their electric appliances at the nearest market center. 
However, the Government policy to install ICT in primary schools has  seen connectivity to the national power grid for most educational  institutions in Kenya and this makes it easy for volunteers to use  electric appliances while at the project.
Furthermore, we invite you to bring typical food, spices, drinks, games  and music from your country (for an intercultural evening) – and a lot  of motivation!
LANGUAGE: English is the language of the work camp. There will be a  possibility of learning Kiswahili and other international and local languages  as cultural diversity is a major component in international service 

EMERGENCY CONTACTS: 

Below are the emergency contacts for Kenya Voluntary Development  Association: 

KVDA Administration: +254721 650 357 

PROJECT DETAILED INFO SHEET: Will be sent to the volunteer sending  organization as soon as the application is accepted by KVDA 

CONFIRMATION DEADLINE: Should be done via e-mail at least one month  before the start of the project. 