Theme: Entrepreneurship skills training 

Project overview
VISION 

To be the best cultural performers and handicraft makers in Kenya 

MISSION 

To create an environment where personal and cultural change that support each other in the context  of community. 

GOALS AND OBJECTIVES  
To establish a presence of a successful suppler of soapstone carvings, clay and wooden artifacts  locally and internationally. 
To gain a substantial market share of the artifacts and cultural performance and tourist centre at  local and international level. 
To run orphanage home to cater for orphans and children from poor families for their shelter,  food and education. 
To engage into community development for empowering women and youth for them to be self reliant in generating income and being in touch with socio-political realities in the country and at  international level. 
To engage into voluntary services at local and international level with interested organizations  who have common objectives with our organizations to improves living standards of human beings  across the world.
BACKGROUND 
Nyamira missionaries was founded and registered with social development in 2002 in Kenya. The organization is located at Nyaramba -Nyamira County in South Nyanza Region of Kenya. The organization consists of 137 members consisting men, women, youth who vary the age of 18  years to even 80 years.

The organization has the office at Nyaramba market in Nyamira county  about 10 km from Nyamira town on way to Ikonge town ship center. The organization is managed is managed by executive committee that consists of chairperson, vice  chairperson, the secretary, Vice Secretary, Treasurer and 5 members. 

The organization runs the following projects; 

NYARAMBA MISSIONARIES CENTER 
The project attracts local and international travellers who come to relax and watch the following  activities;

The traditional Gusii cultural dances. These live performances that one session takes one  hour. The dance troupe dances all Gusii cultural styles in African attires .It offers  entertainment, education and information. The dance is quite vigorous and moving
The artefacts are also displayed for general viewing and sale for both local and international  visitors. These items are made by group members and it is one way of raising the income  to up keep the organization and create self-employment for the members who always  assemble at organization center to engage in this activity. They are professional and they  have had exchange program with Burundi and Malawi in the past. The organization is  looking for partners and volunteers from local and international level to run the program.
The volunteers’ rooms that are self-contained ,clean, have warm water, and have even all  facilities even for cooking for those local and international tourists who may wish to  prepare for their own choice of food. The rooms are allocated at organization offices in  good conducive environment with security and friendly neighbouhood. The organization  welcomes local and international tourists to come for holidays and weekends to its  facilities.
The organization engages in African beautiful baskets weaving that takes place at its  organization premises. They sell locally and internationally. Therefore the organization is  looking for partners and volunteers to create the market in Kenya and across the country.
AGE: Volunteers have to be at least 18 years old to participate in the work  camp. There is no upper age limit. 

PROJECT Activities: Volunteers will work for six hours daily from Monday  to Friday. 

TYPE OF WORK CAMP: CULT/MANU/SOCI/ART 

Manual work and Intercultural activities:  

Weaving
Art work
Women training on self-awareness and confidence building ∙ Women training on entrepreneurship skills and financial  management 
Meetings and media campaign on women empowerment in  leadership
Home visits and topical discussion with the local people
PROJECT PARTICIPANTS: Maximum 20 volunteers from Kenya and the  international community 

What to carry? 
This is outlined in the detailed info sheet and includes, sleeping bag and mat,  toiletries, torch/flashlight, sandals, mosquito net, national flag from your  country, among others 

DONATION AND GIFTS:  
These are usually symbolic gestures to enhance the solidarity of volunteers  and the hosting community. Kindly contact KVDA for details in case you are  willing to support a worthy cause in the community either by offering a  donation or long-term intervention on the project. 

THEME: Entrepreneurship skills training 
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES  

To train women on entrepreneurship skills and financial management  -To empower men, women and community leaders on leadership  -To build capacity of women on life skills and self-confidence  
ACTIVITIES  

Women training on self-awareness and confidence building  -Women training on entrepreneurship skills and financial management  -Meetings and media campaign on women empowerment in leadership 
TARGET GROUPS  

Activity 1: Young women aged 18 – 35 

Activity 2: Young women aged 18 – 35  

Activity 3: Young women aged 18 – 35  

Men aged 18-35 
-Community leaders 35+ 
METHODS: Energizers, group discussions, group presentations, audio,  videos, site visits, testimonies 

INDICATORS  

Objective 1:  

 Number of women have increased knowledge on entrepreneurship skills  and financial management;
 Number of women have started their own business 
Objective 2:  

Number of women and man having skills on leadership;  b) number of women competing for leadership positions;  c) number of women who are participating in community meeting  Objective 3:
Number of speeches to women in the community;
Number of women taking local leadership roles in the community 
Orientation: Will be done on 6th February 2023 at Nairobi South YMCA  Hostel in Nairobi and the team will leave for the project on the morning of  7th February 2023. 

Airport pick-up services:  
The port of entry to Kenya is Jomo Kenyatta International  Airport in Nairobi. 
Airport pick up will be done on provision of full flight details.
Volunteers will stay at Nairobi South YMCA Hostel at a subsidized  fees ahead of their project placement. 
Participation FEES: The project participation fees that is all-inclusive for  the three weeks’ work camp is Euro 300 

What is not included in the project participation fees: Transport to  and from the project will be paid by the volunteers themselves.  

INSURANCE: KVDA does not provide insurance and volunteers should  obtain travel insurance cover. It is a good idea to get medicine you are used  to from your home country and seek advice from your personal doctor. 

WHAT DOES THE PARTICIPATION FEES COVER? 
Project preparation cycle, return transfers from the airport, KVDA  administration, orientation, certificate of participation, project coordination,  facilitation, evaluation and monitoring 

WHAT IS NOT COVERED? 

Excursion activities, transport to and from the project, local travel, personal  effects, needs and wants. 

EDUCATIONAL TOURS  

KVDA offers educational tours to spectacular sites including the renowned  Maasai Mara Game Reserve at separate fees. Please contact us for specific  tour information.  

ACCOMMODATION AND FOOD 

∙ The host community will provide a house to accommodate the  volunteers with very basic living conditions.  

∙ Volunteers have an obligation to climb down the level of the people  with the aim of exposure to development challenges.  

∙ KVDA will provide foodstuffs and volunteers will cook their own meals  in turns.  

∙ Water is available from springs and it is recommended that drinking  water should be boiled or medicated.  

∙ Mineral water available at supermarkets is also recommended.  ∙ There is electricity connection at the project and so the volunteers can  use electric appliances.  

LANGUAGE: English is the language of the work camp. There will be a  possibility of learning Kiswahili and other international and local languages  as cultural diversity is a major component in international service 

EMERGENCY CONTACTS: 

Below are the emergency contacts for Kenya Voluntary Development  Association: 

KVDA Administration: +254721 650 357 

PROJECT DETAILED INFO SHEET: Will be sent to the volunteer sending  organization as soon as the application is accepted by KVDA 

CONFIRMATION DEADLINE: Should be done via e-mail at least one month  before the start of the project 