Project Name: Mount Olives Community Health Centre
Code: KVDA/MLTV/2023/29
Location:  Mosocho, Kisii County
Service Sector: Health and Education
OVERVIEW ON HOSTING ORGANIZATION
Health volunteerKenya Voluntary Development Association (KVDA) is an indigenous, non-political and membership organization which is non-sectarian and non-profit making started in 1962 as a work camp organization registered under the Societies’ Act. In 1993, KVDA was registered as a Non-Governmental organization by the establishment of the NGOs Coordination Act. KVDA has since inception hosted over 50, 000 international volunteers to its community service development projects that have left indelible mark to efforts to enhance sustainable development.

Project background
The group was founded on 16th October 2018 dedicated to supporting small-s Mount Olives Self Help Group project is an initiative of young professionals who came up together to work amongst their community through sharing knowledge and helping the community to pull up resources together or their development. cale sustainable development initiatives mainly primary healthcare, education and youth enterprises.

The founder Mr. Calvin Lizanga is a medical practitioner by profession, is the chief executive officer of the institution and he has track record working with relevant departments on health issues. The medical center caters for the poor of the poorest within the local community and foremost treats an average of 50 patients every day and this reflects on the significance of the institution to alleviate sufferings at the grassroots.

Geographical location:
The projects offices are located at Mosocho market, along Kisii-Oyugis Road. At Mosocho we are running a community health center that provides both outpatient, inpatient and laboratory services.
The facility supports the community by providing affordable healthcare and also works towards community education on matters of health to reduce prevalence of preventable diseases, and also supports the youths by providing youth friendly services.
Project activities
Free consultation
Triaging Services
Outpatient and inpatient services
Laboratory services
Family planning services
M.C.H services
Spiritual and psychological counselling i.e. student, parents, couples, orphans, trauma cases etc.
Pediatric care
ENT services
Maternity services
Immunization
Nutritional services
Gynaeocological and obstetric services
Special clinics e.g. diabetes, hypertensi0n etc.
Surgeries
Youth friendly services e.g. counselling on drug and substance abuse, peer pressure, sporting activities etc.
Support with skills on handling of emergency and critical care support pending referral
Volunteer tasks
The volunteers will be assigned duties in the health facility by professional staff
Record keeping, weighing, and general cleanliness among other duties at the center.
Assist in community outreach on health education
Offer support to professional staff at the medical centre
Healthcare support in collaboration with the community
Submit Project Report to KVDA
PROJECT START DATES
Volunteers are accepted to join this project at any time of the year and should arrive in Kenya on 20th day of the month. The duration of placement is flexible depending on the availability of the volunteer
2-day orientation seminar will be done on the 21st and 22nd of every month
Financial contribution
The project participation fee is Euro 200 per month paid upfront on arrival to the cover costs stipulated the entire duration of the project.
Monthly payment of participation fees is not allowed for conventional purposes.
Volunteers accepted on MLTV project for one month will pay Euros 300 for the one-month placement.
What is included in the participation fee?
Return transfers from the airport
Full board at the project (Accommodation and meals provided at the project)
Orientation, evaluation and monitoring
Volunteer mentorship
What is not included in the participation fee?
Travel to and from the project. The volunteer will be required to pay for the bus tickets
Refreshments outside the project
Air ticket and excursion
Visa and Insurance
Local travel
personal effects
ACCOMMODATION AND MEALS
Home stay and the volunteer is entitled to private room but will share other amenities and meals with the host family.
It is convenient for the volunteer to carry sleeping bag, mat and personal effects.
KVDA has a memorandum of understanding with the host project regarding the project costs with appropriate procedures, checks and balances.
Terminal
Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi is the port of arrival and KVDA will designate a driver for the airport pick up.
We strongly advice volunteers against getting taxis on their own without reference to KVDA due to the obvious risks and in case of any challenges on arrival kindly contact KVDA via mobile telephone 0721650357
KVDA RESIDENCE
Volunteers will be driven to the YMCA South hostels located 15 Kilometers away from the airport where they will be accommodated ahead of their placement to the project.
The residence is situated in the serene environment with amble space for recreation and spectacular setting as the inauguration of volunteering to make a difference in the world.
Leisure time
Kenya is replete with a lot of interesting and natural spectacular sites of interest that would capture the imagination of volunteers.
From the tour to the renowned Maasai Mara Game Reserve to visits to local community beholding sights, the volunteers have the previledge to make choices that would fundamentally make the difference.
The project also offers a perfect opportunity for people who enjoy being close to nature and are interested in the spectacular setting that traditional way of living in the heartland of the African culture would enrich your cultural heritage
Laundry and water:
Water is available at the hosting house from springs and it is important to preserve water at all times due to its scarcity and cooperation with the hosts will be highly appreciated
There are no washing machines in the institution and the volunteer will be guided on how to wash clothes
Medical:
Volunteers are expected to have their own medical insurance and other personal expenses and it is important to carry your own medical and travel insurances.
Donation
It is personal choice to make a donation to support the project.
Carryon parks for medical purposes e.g. glucometer, stethoscopes, microscopes, HB machines, consumables and disposables.
Kindly contact KVDA in case you require more information.
MENTORING:
Mentor for the volunteer from the hosting organisation: KVDA will designate its staff to play the role of mentoring and this is the vital link between the volunteer and the organization. The Mentor has the responsibility to enable the volunteer to efficiently execute their tasks with diligence.
Function of mentor: advise, educate, be a role model to the volunteers; providing problem solving, collaborative support, positive and non-evaluative feedback and emotional support for volunteers; to provide comfort, exposure, visibility and challenging assignments which directly support the volunteer’s personal and professional development; to provide counselling and friendship to support the volunteer’s self-image and competence and thus to listen, guide, advice, teach and offer professional support to the volunteers
The mentor will be available for the volunteer as a constant supporting person. However, he/she should not be directly involved in the daily work of the volunteer.
Mentor’s Experience with international volunteers: More than 3 years’ experience with international volunteers
Project participants: Maximum 5 volunteers from different nationalities recruited through KVDA partner organizations

What to carry: This is outlined in the detailed info sheet and includes, sleeping bag and mat, toiletries, torch, flashlight, sandals, mosquito net, national flag from your country, among others

DONATION AND GIFTS: These are usually symbolic gestures to enhance the solidarity of volunteers and the hosting community. Kindly contact KVDA for details in case you are willing to support a worthy cause in the community either by offering a donation or long-term intervention on the project.

APPLICATIONS: Should be done at least one month in advance through KVDA partner organization in respective countries. KVDA does not accept direct applications by volunteers