Project Name:  Esikoma Community Health Volunteers
November 2023

Code: KVDA/STV/11B

Dates: 6th to 27th November 2023

Orientation: 6th November 2023

Travel to the Project: 7th November 2023

Project closure: 26th November 2023

Travel from the project: 27th November 2023

Location: KAKAMEGA County, Western Kenya

Theme: To Build the Capacity of youth on reproductive health

Project overview
Esikoma Community Health Volunteers (ECHV) is a community self-help group established in 2014 by local volunteers operating within Butula Sub County with its main office at Esikoma Market within Marachi central Ward, focusing on Health and community development and other health related issues.
Having realized all these problems within the community, few members from Butula who were trained, decided to establish a group which could address the above mentioned health issues. The group was then referred to as Esikoma Community Health Volunteers (ECHV).
Most orphans whose parents died from HIV/AIDS. Were infected by jiggers, this was as a result of parental and guardian poor care. In generals these children lacked basic needs such as health care, shelter, education, and clothing among others.
Group’s objectives

Take an active role in implementation of community Development programs in Butula
Sub-County.

To create and promote awareness among the members of the community on sustainable natural resource management.
To facilitate information generation, sharing and networking amongst all members of the community, and other SHG.
To establish income generating activities that will sustain and improve the livelihood of the community.
To support people living with HIV-AIDS to increase access and improve quality of healthcare by providing nutritional supplements.
To build the capacity of youth on adolescent sexual and reproductive health.
To educate the local community on girl child education.
AGE: Volunteers have to be at least 18 years old to participate in the work camp. There is no upper age limit`

PROJECT ACTIVITIES

TYPE OF WORK CAMP:  EDU/Health

Volunteers will work for six hours daily from Monday to Friday. They will work together with the local community members on the following activities:

Manual work and Intercultural activities:      

Rehabilitation of Busia wetlands
Environmental education to schools
Conservation of Busia wetlands
Support of venerable children in the communities
Rural renewable energy management and conservation
Nature based livelihood support
PROJECT PARTICIPANTS: Maximum 20 volunteers from Kenya and the international community

What to carry?
This is outlined in the detailed info sheet and includes, sleeping bag and mat, toiletries, torch/flashlight, sandals, mosquito net, national flag from your country, among others

DONATION AND GIFTS:

These are usually symbolic gestures to enhance the solidarity of volunteers and the hosting community. Kindly contact KVDA for details in case you are willing to support a worthy cause in the community either by offering a donation or long-term intervention on the project.

THEME: To Build the Capacity of youth on reproductive health

Gender equality implies a society in which women and men enjoy the same opportunities, outcomes, rights and obligations in all spheres of life.
Equality between men and women exists when both sexes are able to share equally in the distribution of power and influence; have equal opportunities for financial independence through work or through setting up businesses; enjoy equal access to education and the opportunity to develop personal ambitions.
A critical aspect of promoting gender equality is the empowerment of women, with a focus on identifying and redressing power imbalances and giving women more autonomy to manage their own lives.
Women’s empowerment is vital to sustainable development and the realization of human rights for all.
The project aims to empower the women to actively continue with the struggle to enhance their capacities and ultimately take the lead in community development.
This takes cognizance of the fact that despite being overrun by pro-men cultural foundations, women remain the pillar of families and the most vulnerable gender in the current societal set-up.
Orientation: Will be done on 6th November 2023 at Nairobi South YMCA Hostel in Nairobi and the team will leave for the project on the morning of 7th November 2023.

Airport pick-up services:

The port of entry to Kenya is Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi
Airport pick up will be done on provision of full flight details.
Volunteers will stay at Nairobi South YMCA Hostel at a subsidized fees ahead of their project placement.
Participation FEES

The project participation fees that is all-inclusive for the 3-week work camp is Euro 300

What is not included in the project participation fees: Transport to and from the project will be paid by the volunteers themselves.

INSURANCE: KVDA does not provide insurance and volunteers should obtain travel insurance cover. It is a good idea to get medicine you are used to from your home country and seek advice from your personal doctor.

WHAT DOES THE PARTICIPATION FEES COVER?

Project preparation cycle, return transfer from the airport, KVDA administration, orientation, certificate of participation, project coordination, facilitation, evaluation and monitoring

WHAT IS NOT COVERED?

Excursion activities, transport to and from the project, local travel, personal effects, needs and wants.

EDUCATIONAL TOURS

KVDA offers educational tours to spectacular sites including the renowned Maasai Mara Game Reserve at separate fees. Please contact us for specific tour information.

 ACCOMMODATION AND MEALS

Volunteers will stay in a homestead provided by the local people with very basic living conditions.
Volunteers have an obligation to climb down the level of the people with the aim of exposure to development challenges.
KVDA will provide foodstuffs and volunteers will cook their own meals in turns. Water is available from springs and it is recommended that drinking water should be boiled or medicated.
Mineral water available at supermarkets is also recommended.
The Government policy to install ICT in primary schools has seen connectivity to the national power grid for most educational institutions in Kenya and this makes it easy for volunteers to use electric appliances while at the project.
Furthermore, we invite you to bring typical food, spices, drinks, games and music from your country (for an intercultural evening) – and a lot of motivation!
LANGUAGE: English is the language of the work camp. There will be a possibility of learning Kiswahili and other international and local languages as cultural diversity is a major component in international service

EMERGENCY CONTACTS:

Below are the emergency contacts for Kenya Voluntary Development Association:

KVDA Administration: +254721 650 357

PROJECT DETAILED INFO SHEET: Will be sent to the volunteer sending organization within one week on acceptance of the volunteer by KVDA.

CONFIRMATION DEADLINE: Should be done via e-mail at least one month before the start of the project.