Project name: Newstar Drama Group 
July 2023 

Code: KVDA/STV/07B 

Dates: 3rd -24th July 2023 

Orientation: 3rd July 2023 

Travel to the Project: 4th July 2023 

Project closure: 23rd July 2023 

Travel from the project: 24th July 2023

Location: Kisii County 

Theme: REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH EDUCATION, PROMOTION  OF GENDER EQUALITY AND WOMEN EMPOWERMENT 
Project overview 
Newstar Drama Group was founded in 1993 at Kenya Institute of Mass Communication  (KIMC) Nairobi and was registered in 1996 by the Ministry of Culture and Social  services. The group is a traveling theatre group that has performed at many high  schools, universities, colleges, primary schools, social forums and Kenya National  Theatre. Newstar is a member of International Drama/Theatre and Education  Association (IDEA). 

VISION: To advocate for a better life on this earth as the educator to mankind like  diseases, education, investment, human rights, good governance, community theatre  and youth development. 

MISSION STATEMENT: To tap, train and contract performing artistes e.g. Actors,  actresses, playwrights, poets, narrators, comedians and theatre arts` directors. 

OBJECTIVES  

Educate the society on diseases like HIV/AIDS, malaria and health related issues. ∙ To promote environmental activities in schools and public forums. ∙ To perform current Kenyan examination-oriented literature SETBOOKS in high schools like “An Enemy of the people” by Henrik Ibsen, “The River between” by  Ngugi wa Thiongo & “Utengano” by Said Mohammed.
To champion for women empowerment and girl child education. ∙ To perform community theatre e.g. human rights, good governance, drug abuse  awareness, poverty eradication, and development. 
To host and participate in international exchange forums like IDEA WORLD  CONGRESSES among others. 
To organize international and local training drama workshops/seminars. 
Project activities 

Creative, educational, entertaining and informative plays, comedies, narratives,  poems, skits, traditional dances & training workshops 
Live performances on Kenyan examination literature set books e.g. “An Enemy of  the people” by Henrik Ibsen and “The River between” by Ngugi wa Thiongo in  secondary schools in Kenya. 
HIV/ Aids awareness program in both learning and non-learning forums. ∙ Running peace building and reconciliation program.  
Junior artistes’ program (children drama 6yrs – 15yrs)
International artistes training and attachment program (1 month to 6 months) in  Kenya, i.e. we attach performing artistes to our group performing projects  between 1 month to 6 months. 
Entertainment and educative drama program. 
Exchange program with other artistes’ groups to share experiences. Project activities  
Creative, educational, entertaining and informative plays, comedies,  narratives, poems, skits, traditional dances & training workshops ∙ Live performances on Kenyan examination literature set books e.g.  “An Enemy of the people” by Henrik Ibsen and “The River between”  by Ngugi wa Thiongo in secondary schools in Kenya. 
HIV/ Aids awareness program in both learning and non-learning  forums.
 Running peace building and reconciliation program.  
Junior artistes’ program (children drama 6yrs – 15yrs) 
International artistes training and attachment program (1 month to 6  months) in Kenya, i.e. we attach performing artistes to our group  performing projects between 1 month to 6 months. 
Entertainment and educative drama program. 
Exchange program with other artistes’ groups to share experiences. 
AGE: Volunteers have to be at least 18 years old to participate in the work  camp. There is no upper age limit. 

TYPE OF WORK CAMP: EDUC/ART/FEST/THEATRE Volunteers will work for six hours daily from Monday to Friday. 

Manual work and Intercultural activities:  

Newstar Drama Group office work.
 Performing arts training.
Live drama performances.
Mentorship for artistes.
Promotional activities including marketing theatre productions. ∙ Submit Project Report to KVDA.
PROJECT PARTICIPANTS: Maximum 20 volunteers from Kenya and  the international community 

What to carry? 

This is outlined in the detailed info sheet and includes, sleeping bag and mat,  toiletries, torch/flashlight, sandals, mosquito net, national flag from your  country, among others 

DONATION AND GIFTS:  

These are usually symbolic gestures to enhance the solidarity of  volunteers and the hosting community.  
Kindly contact KVDA for details in case you are willing to support a  worthy cause in the community either by offering a donation or long term intervention on the project. 
THEME: REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH EDUCATION, PROMOTION  OF GENDER EQUALITY AND WOMEN EMPOWERMENT 
Gender equality implies a society in which women and men enjoy the  same opportunities, outcomes, rights and obligations in all spheres of  life. Equality between men and women exists when both sexes are able  to share equally in the distribution of power and influence; have equal  opportunities for financial independence through work or through  setting up businesses; enjoy equal access to education and the  opportunity to develop personal ambitions. 

A critical aspect of promoting gender equality is the empowerment of  women, with a focus on identifying and redressing power imbalances  and giving women more autonomy to manage their own lives.  Women’s empowerment is vital to sustainable development and the  realization of human rights for all. 

The project aims to empower the women to actively continue with the  struggle to enhance their capacities and ultimately take the lead in  community development. This takes cognizance of the fact that despite  being overrun by pro-men cultural foundations, women remain the  pillar of families and the most vulnerable gender in the current societal  set-up. 

Orientation: Will be done on 3rd July 2023 at Nairobi South YMCA  Hostel in Nairobi and the team will leave for the project on the morning of  4th July 2023 

Airport pick-up services: 

The port of entry to Kenya is Jomo Kenyatta International  Airport in Nairobi 
Airport pick up will be done on provision of full flight details.  
Volunteers will stay at Nairobi South YMCA Hostel at a subsidized  fees ahead of their project placement. 
Participation FEES  

The project participation fees that is all-inclusive for the 3-week work camp  is Euro 300 

What is not included in the project participation fees: Transport to  and from the project will be paid by the volunteers themselves.  

INSURANCE: KVDA does not provide insurance and volunteers should obtain  travel insurance cover. It is a good idea to get medicine you are used to from  your home country and seek advice from your personal doctor. 

WHAT DOES THE PARTICIPATION FEES COVER? 

Project preparation cycle, return transfers from the airport, KVDA  administration, orientation, certificate of participation, project coordination,  facilitation, evaluation and monitoring 

WHAT IS NOT COVERED? 

Excursion activities, transport to and from the project, local travel, personal  effects, needs and wants. 

EDUCATIONAL TOURS  
KVDA offers educational tours to spectacular sites including the renowned  Maasai Mara Game Reserve at separate fees. Please contact us for specific  tour information. 

ACCOMMODATION AND MEALS 

Volunteers will stay in a house provided by the local people with very  basic living conditions.  
Volunteers have an obligation to climb down the level of the people  with the aim of exposure to development challenges.  
KVDA will provide foodstuffs and volunteers will cook their own meals  in turns.  
Water is available from springs and it is recommended that drinking  water should be boiled or medicated. Mineral water available at  supermarkets is also recommended.  
The Government policy to install ICT in primary schools has seen  connectivity to the national power grid for most educational  institutions in Kenya and this makes it easy for volunteers to use  electric appliances while at the project.  
Furthermore, we invite you to bring typical food, spices, drinks, games  and music from your country (for an intercultural evening) – and a lot  of motivation! 
LANGUAGE: English is the language of the work camp. There will be a  possibility of learning Kiswahili and other international and local languages  as cultural diversity is a major component in international service 

EMERGENCY CONTACTS: 

Below are the emergency contacts for Kenya Voluntary Development  Association: 

KVDA Administration: +254721 650 357 

PROJECT DETAILED INFO SHEET: Will be sent to the volunteer sending  organization as soon as the application is accepted by KVDA 

CONFIRMATION DEADLINE: Should be done via e-mail at least one month  before the start of the project.