Project Name: ESIBILA PRIMARY SCHOOL 
MAY 2023  

Code: KVDA/STV/05A 

Dates: 3rd -24th May 2023 

Orientation: 3rd May 2023 

Travel to the Project: 3rd May 2023

Project closure: 23rd May 2023 

Travel from the project: 24th May 2023 

Location: ESIBILA, VIHIGA COUNTY  

Theme: Quality Education 
 Project overview  

Esibila Primary School is located in Emuhaya district of Vihiga county  and it was started in 1952 
The pupils learn a maximum of eight years in Primary School with the  pupils examined in the following subjects; English, Mathematics,  Science, Christian Religious Education, Kiswahili and social studies 
The school has ten classes from the Early childhood education to  Primary School 
The school has an enrolment of 858 pupils, 440 girls and 418 boys ∙ The school has 17 teachers employed by the Teachers’ Service  commission and two by the board of management. 
The student teacher ratio is 1:50 
Challenges  

The school has dilapidated blocks that are housing fifteen classrooms  and the need urgent refurbishment  
The school requires a revamped sanitation system given the high  number of students admitted at the institution 
The terrain at the school is rocky posing risks to pupils and especially  those who are in lower classes and they is need to urgently address it  through refurbishment 
AGE: Volunteers have to be at least 18 years old to participate in the work  camp. There is no upper age limit 

TYPE OF WORKCAMP: EDUC/CHIL/MANU 
Volunteers will work for six hours daily from Monday to Friday.  Manual work and Intercultural activities: 

Brick making 
Teaching 
Sporting with the pupils 
Home visits to touch base with development challenges ∙ Inter-cultural activities in partnership with local community  members. 
PROJECT PARTICIPANTS: Maximum 20 volunteers from Kenya and the  international community 

What to carry? 

This is outlined in the detailed info sheet and includes, sleeping bag and mat,  toiletries, torch/flashlight, sandals, mosquito net, national flag from your  country, among others 

DONATION AND GIFTS:  
These are usually symbolic gestures to enhance the solidarity of  volunteers and the hosting community.  
Kindly contact KVDA for details in case you are willing to support a  worthy cause in the community either by offering a donation or long term intervention on the project. 
THEME: Quality Education  
It also aims to provide equal access to affordable vocational training,  and to eliminate gender and wealth disparities with the aim of  achieving universal access to a quality higher education. 
Quality education is one of 17 Global Goals that make up the 2030  Agenda for Sustainable Development. 
Orientation: Will be done on 3rd May 2023 at Nairobi South YMCA  Hostel in Nairobi and the team will leave for the project on the morning of  4th May 2023. 

Airport pick-up services: 

This will be done subject to provision of full flight details.  ∙ The port of entry to Kenya is Jomo Kenyatta International  Airport in Nairobi. 
Volunteers will stay at Nairobi South YMCA Hostel at a subsidized  fees ahead of their project placement.
Participation FEES  

The project participation fees that is all-inclusive for the three weeks work  camp is Euro 300 

What is not included in the project participation fees: Transport to  and from the project will be paid by the volunteers themselves.  

INSURANCE: KVDA does not provide insurance and volunteers should  obtain travel insurance cover. It is a good idea to get medicine you are used  to from your home country and seek advice from your personal doctor. 

WHAT DOES THE PARTICIPATION FEES COVER?  

Project preparation cycle, return transfer from the airport, KVDA  administration, orientation, certificate of participation, project coordination,  facilitation, evaluation and monitoring 

WHAT IS NOT COVERED?  

Excursion activities, transport to and from the project, local travel, personal  effects, needs and wants. 

EDUCATIONAL TOURS  

KVDA offers educational tours to spectacular sites including the renowned  Maasai Mara Game Reserve at separate fees. Please contact us for specific  tour information.  

ACCOMMODATION AND MEALS  

The volunteers stay in School classrooms in very basic conditions
KVDA will provide foodstuffs and volunteers will cook their own meals  in turns. Volunteers have an obligation to climb down the level of the  people with the aim of exposure to development challenges.
Water is available from springs and it is recommended that drinking  water should be boiled or medicated.
Mineral water available at supermarkets is also recommended.  ∙ There is electricity connection at the project and so the volunteers will  be able to charge their electric appliances.
LANGUAGE: English is the language of the work camp. There will be a  possibility of learning Kiswahili and other international and local languages  as cultural diversity is a major component in international service 

EMERGENCY CONTACTS: 

Below are the emergency contacts for Kenya Voluntary Development  Association: 

KVDA Administration: +254721 650 357 

PROJECT DETAILED INFO SHEET: Will be sent to the volunteer sending  organization as soon as the application is accepted by KVDA 

CONFIRMATION DEADLINE: Should be done via e-mail at least one month before  the start of the project 