Project Name:  NEEMA GOOD SHEPHERDS ORPHANAGE
SEPTEMBER 2023
Code: KVDA/STV/09B
Dates: 4th -25th September 2023
Orientation: 4th September 2023
Travel to the Project: 5th September 2023
Project closure: 24th September 2023
Travel from the project: 25th September 2023
Location:  Webuye, Bungoma County
Theme:  Taking care of abandoned and extremely vulnerable orphaned children
Project overview
Neema School is dedicated to academic excellent and character education, it supports parents and guardians raise moral children and promote intercultural harmony. Found on principal that are universal to people of all faiths, the school recognizes the belief the parenthood of God leads to brotherhood of humanity. Neema Good Shepherds School is located in Kenya, Bungoma County, Webuye West Sub-County, Khalumuli Sub-location and Sitikho Location. It’s 13KM from Webuye Town. The school enjoys the scenic views of the Mang’ana whose natural beauty if further augmented by trees planted by vulnerable and orphaned children.

The start of the school

It started the year 2011, 12TH January; this was from ECDE to standard four being proposed by Mr. Moses Makhabila as the vision carrier, with an average number of 80 pupils. This was done after he had done his total investigations and discovered of the suffering of the vulnerable and orphan children within the community. After his proposal he was seconded by several members of the community who gave him courage by uniting him to nature his dream. As per now the school has a population of 150 vulnerable and orphan pupils, Right now the school is from ECDE to class eight.

The school construction

The school started under the banana shade in a voluntary portion of a half an acre of land (1/2). Being donated by Mr. Richard Kombe Wafula, who was also sympathized by the situation the children were passing through. After sometime through our unity we have managed to put up nine (9) temporal class and two (2) permanent class which are still under construction and they need total support by now, of finishing the buildings by plastering, painting and putting on steel windows and doors together with coloring.

The School Staff

The school has got eight (8) teachers and the children has got two (2) nonteaching staff members; this total to ten (10) workers.

Academics

The school is involved in the academic following the syllabus from the Ministry of Education of Kenya. This means that the school is fully registered by the Ministry of Education.

KCPE National Exams

An average of 30 candidates sits for Kenya Certificate of Primary Education exams yearly in Neema School. Out of this the school has made some of vulnerable and orphan children join Universities and colleges, despite of the fee challenges in the University but as the school we have been standing in this gap by fundraising and donation from well-wishers. The school has been performing well in the national exam – Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE).

Out of class activities

To the best support of our children’s the school has got several very innovative programs. These are:

a) Drama festivals: Neema School has always produced the best candidates nationally in the national competitions during the music festivals and drama.
b) Scouts: The school has been always participating in scout’s competition nationally and they have emerged the winners always.
c) Games: The school has been participating in sports and has been always the national championships, despite the fact that it lacks enough practice materials for games, athletics both field and track events
AGE: Volunteers have to be at least 18 years old to participate in the work camp. There is no upper age limit

TYPE OF WORKCAMP: CHIL/EDUC/MANU

Volunteers will work for six hours daily from Monday to Friday.

Manual work and Intercultural activities
Manual work and Intercultural activities
Manual work at the School
Social work with the children
Participate in HIV/AIDS awareness including guiding and counselling at the neighbouring community dispensary
Field visits and face to face meetings with the local people
Participate in home visits to enhance inter-cultural education and solidarity
Volunteers will work for six hours daily from Monday to Friday.
They will work together with the local community members on the following activities
PROJECT PARTICIPANTS: Maximum 20 volunteers from Kenya and the international community

What to carry?
This is outlined in the detailed info sheet and includes, sleeping bag and mat, toiletries, torch/flashlight, sandals, mosquito net, national flag from your country, among others

DONATION AND GIFTS:

These are usually symbolic gestures to enhance the solidarity of volunteers and the hosting community. Kindly contact KVDA for details in case you are willing to support a worthy cause in the community either by offering a donation or long-term intervention on the project.

THEME: Taking care of abandoned and extremely vulnerable orphaned children
In Kenya, it is estimated that there are approximately 3.6 million children aged, 18 years who have been orphaned or who are vulnerable. The examined the data was from the second Kenya AIDS Indicator Survey (KAIS 2012) to determine the number and profile of orphans and vulnerable children (OVC) in Kenya who were aged, 18 years.
It is estimated that there were 2.6 million OVC in Kenya in 2012, of whom 1.8 million were orphans and 750,000 were vulnerable. Among orphans, 15% were double orphans. Over one third of all the OVC were aged between 10 and 14 years. Households with $1 OVC (12% of all households) were usually in the lowest 2 wealth quintiles, and 22% of OVC households had experienced moderate or severe hunger.
Receipt of OVC support services was low for medical (3.7%), psychological (4.1%), social (1.3%), and material support (6.2%); educational support was slightly more common (11.5%). Orphan hood among children aged, 15 years increased from 1993 to 2003 (P, 0.01) but declined from 2003 to 2012 (P, 0.01).
Conclusions: The 2.6 million OVC constitute a significant proportion of Kenya’s population aged, 18 years. Special attention should be paid to OVC to prevent further vulnerability and ensure their well-being and development as they transition into adulthood
HIV testing has widely expanded across Kenya since the beginning of the Millennium. In 2000 there were only three Voluntary Counseling and Testing (VCT) sites nationwide and by 2007 there were almost 1000
Alongside voluntary testing, provider initiated counseling and testing (PCT) has expanded and it is now available in 73 percent of health facilities. PCT is where individuals are offered a HIV test whenever they go to a health facility rather than patient having to ask for a test
Orientation: Will be done on 4th September 2023 at Nairobi South YMCA Hostel in Nairobi and the team will leave for the project on the morning of 5th September 2023

Airport pick-up services
The port of entry to Kenya is Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi
Airport pick up will be done on provision of full flight details.
Volunteers will stay at Nairobi South YMCA Hostel at a subsidized fees ahead of their project placement.
Participation FEES

The project participation fees that is all-inclusive for the 3- week work camp is Euro 300

What is not included in the project participation fees: Transport to and from the project will be paid by the volunteers themselves.

INSURANCE: KVDA does not provide insurance and volunteers should obtain travel insurance cover. It is a good idea to get medicine you are used to from your home country and seek advice from your personal doctor.

WHAT DOES THE PARTICIPATION FEES COVER?
Project preparation cycle, return transfer from the airport, KVDA administration, orientation, certificate of participation, project coordination, facilitation, evaluation and monitoring

WHAT IS NOT COVERED?

Excursion activities, transport to and from the project, local travel, personal effects, needs and wants.

EDUCATIONAL TOURS

KVDA offers educational tours to spectacular sites including the renowned Maasai Mara Game Reserve at separate fees. Please contact us for specific tour information.

ACCOMMODATION AND MEALS

Volunteers will stay in a house provided by the local community with very basic living conditions. Volunteers have an obligation to climb down the level of the people with the aim of exposure to development challenges.
KVDA will provide foodstuffs and volunteers will cook their own meals in turns. Water is available from springs and it is recommended that drinking water should be boiled or medicated. Mineral water available at supermarkets is also recommended.
The Government policy to install ICT in primary schools has seen connectivity to the national power grid for most educational institutions in Kenya and this makes it easy for volunteers to use electric appliances while at the project.
Furthermore, we invite you to bring typical food, spices, drinks, games and music from your country (for an intercultural evening) – and a lot of motivation!
LANGUAGE: English is the language of the work camp. There will be a possibility of learning Kiswahili and other international and local languages as cultural diversity is a major component in international service

EMERGENCY CONTACTS:

Below is the emergency contact for Kenya Voluntary Development Association:

KVDA Administration: +254721 650 357

PROJECT DETAILED INFO SHEET: Will be sent to the volunteer sending organization as soon as the application is accepted by KVDA

CONFIRMATION DEADLINE: Should be done via e-mail at least one month before the start of the project